Documentation & Small Fixes (#10)
kyma-project/eventing-auth-manager: README.md

# Eventing Auth Manager
The eventing-auth-manager is a central component that is deployed on the [Kyma control-plane](https://github.com/kyma-project/control-plane). The component manages applications in the 
SAP Cloud Identity Services - Identity Authentication (IAS) by creating and deleting them based on creation or deletion of a managed Kyma Runtime.

### Table of contents
* [Description](#description)
* [EventingAuth CR](#eventingauth-cr)
* [eventing-webhook-auth secret](#eventing-webhook-auth-secret)
* [Name reference between resources](#name-reference-between-resources)
* [Design decisions](#design-decisions)
* [Generating the SAP Cloud Identity Services API client](#generating-the-sap-cloud-identity-services-api-client)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

## Description
The eventing-auth-manager manages the credentials for IAS applications used by webhooks in the `eventing` component.  
When a new managed Kyma Runtime is provisioned the component creates a new [OIDC](https://openid.net/connect/) IAS application for this runtime and stores the credentials in a secret on the new runtime.

> ![eventing-auth-manager-overview](./doc/overview.svg)

Reviewer: can we use proper names for the secrets `eventing-auth-ias-creds` and `eventing-webhook-auth` in the diagram? 
I think we should rename the target cluster secret name to `eventing-webhook-auth`.

Author: I adapter the overview. The renaming is also done in this PR.

A Kyma CR is created for each runtime. The Eventing Auth Manager watches the creation and deletion of Kyma CRs. On the creation of a Kyma CR, the Eventing Auth Manager creates an EventingAuth CR. 
The reconciliation of the EventingAuth CR will create an application in IAS using the [Application Directory REST API](https://api.sap.com/api/SCI_Application_Directory/) and the secret with the credentials on the managed runtime.
When the Kyma CR is deleted, the controller deletes the EventingAuth CR. On the deletion of the EventingAuth CR the Eventing Auth Manager deletes the application in IAS and the secret on the runtime.

> ![controller-flow](./doc/controller-flow.svg)

Reviewer: Nice dagramm! 
I have a couple of comments here:
* Can we rename the step `Create client secret for IAS application` to `Create IAS Application client secret`? I am asking this because when I read the current one I always got it like K8s secret. (nitpick)
* Can we rename the step `Create secret on managed runtime` to `Create K8s secret on managed runtime`. Otherwise, it was not clear from the first read what kind of secret it is.
* Can we merge `Runtime deletion` and `Reconcile EventingAuth deletion` to ? The reason is this makes is really easy to understand from the first sight.

Author: Thanks, those are very good points

| **status.secret**                | AuthSecret contains information about created K8s secret                                                                                  |
| **status.secret.clusterId**      | Runtime ID of the cluster where the secret is created                                                                                     |
| **status.secret.namespacedName** | NamespacedName of the secret on the managed runtime                                                                                       |
| **status.state**                 | State signifies current state of CustomObject. Value can be one of ("Ready", "NotReady").                                                 |

## eventing-webhook-auth secret
The secret created on the managed runtime is looks like the following:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: eventing-webhook-auth
  namespace: kyma-system
type: Opaque
data:
  client_id: "850d10a4-6e0b-4958-8232-066962ed3b46"
  client_secret: "h?VTJMDxj0Trn8t=yE55gW_dsJgXR[df3IQ"
  token_url: "https://<tenant>.accounts400.ondemand.com/oauth2/token"
```

## Name reference between resources

> The Kyma CR, which creation is the trigger for the creation of the EventingAuth CR, uses the unqiue runtime ID of the managed Kyma runtime as name. This name is used as the name for the
> name for the EventingAuth CR and the IAS application. In this way, the eventing-auth CR and the IAS application can be assigned to the specific managed runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kyma CR, which creation is the trigger for the creation of the EventingAuth CR, uses the unique runtime ID of the managed Kyma runtime as name. This name is used as the name for the EventingAuth CR and the IAS application. In this way, the EventingAuth CR and the IAS application can be assigned to the specific managed runtime.
```

To reduce the number of requests when creating an application client secret and thus increase the stability of the reconciliation, it was decided to cache the 
token endpoint on the first retrieval. The cached token endpoint is not invalidated during operator runtime, but is updated when the IAS credentials or tenant URL are changed.

### Referencing IAS applications by name
The IAS application is created with a name that matches the name of the EventingAuth CR. This name is the unique runtime ID of the cluster for which the IAS application is created.
Since we do not want to store the IAS application ID in the secret stored on the managed runtime , we can read the IAS application only by its name.  
During the creation of the application, existing applications with the same name are read. If an application with the same name exists, it is deleted, as we assume this is due to a failed reconciliation.
If more than one application with the same name already exists, the reconciliation fails. The same behaviour occurs when reconciling the deletion of the EventingAuth CR.

> It was decided not to delete any of the existing applications in this case, as it is an unexpected condition that may have been caused by manual actions, and we may want to keep the applications to find the cause of the issue.

Reviewer: Can we put something like this in a separate section with bullet points so that we can read them easily for our future improvements? For example:
### Future Improvements:
* Identify IAS Application with its UUID. Currently it is identified with its name.

### Handling of failed IAS application and secret creation
If the creation of the IAS application fails, the reconciliation will be retried. If an application has already been created, it is deleted before creation is attempted again.
To avoid having multiple applications with the same name, the application is created again only if the deletion is successful.
During the application creation process, there are several steps that can fail. First, the application is created, then the client secret is created, and finally the client ID of the client secret is read.    
It was decided to always delete the application if any of these steps fail, as this makes the whole process more understandable and easier to maintain.  
The reason for this is that the existing application can only be reused if the reconciliation failed before the client secret was successfully created, as we have no way to retrieve the client secret the next time the reconciliation is performed. 

Additionally,if the creation of the secret on the managed runtime fails, we also delete the application and recreate it during the next reconciliation.

> In this case, there is still the option of not always deleting the application by caching the created application in the operator, but caching the application and thus the client secrets might not be a good idea either for security reasons.

Reviewer: please see the [comment](https://github.com/kyma-project/eventing-auth-manager/pull/10/files#r1178982978)

To avoid having multiple applications with the same name, the application is created again only if the deletion is successful.
During the application creation process, there are several steps that can fail. First, the application is created, then the client secret is created, and finally the client ID of the client secret is read.    
It was decided to always delete the application if any of these steps fail, as this makes the whole process more understandable and easier to maintain.  
The reason for this is that the existing application can only be reused if the reconciliation failed before the client secret was successfully created, as we have no way to retrieve the client secret the next time the reconciliation is performed. 

Additionally,if the creation of the secret on the managed runtime fails, we also delete the application and recreate it during the next reconciliation.
In this case, there is still the option of not always deleting the application by caching the created application in the operator, but caching the application and thus the client secrets might not be a good idea either for security reasons.

> ## Future Improvements
> - Identify IAS Application with its UUID. Currently, it is identified with its name, see [Referencing IAS applications by name](#referencing-ias-applications-by-name).
> Prevent IAS Application multiple recreation in case K8s secret creation fails, see [Handling of failed IAS application and secret creation](#handling-of-failed-ias-application-and-secret-creation).

Reviewer: It'd be perfect if you could the following suggestion:
```suggestion
## Future Improvements
- Identify IAS Application with its UUID. Currently, it is identified with its name, see [Referencing IAS applications by name](#referencing-ias-applications-by-name).
- Prevent IAS Application multiple recreation in case K8s secret creation fails, see [Handling of failed IAS application and secret creation](#handling-of-failed-ias-application-and-secret-creation).
```
